---
tags: daily
---

## Todo
- [ ] Define locals
- [ ] Touch up [[Definition – Place Prefix]]
- [ ] Before [[Lemma – Leaves from folding]], the example should use `s.` instead of bare `.y` and `.y.a`.
- [ ] Move function signature of [[Definition – Cut]] into math block.
- [x] Program proofs – Leino

- [ ] Places are inductively defined.

- [x] Look up Ncatlab

## Questions/comments
- [ ] Root of tree
- [[Definition – Folding tree]] uses [[Definition – Place Prefix]], but should it be explained again?
- After [[Definition – Folding tree]] you comment on infinite folding trees, but that is covered in remark after [[Definition – Folding tree top and bottom]]. Should it be earlier?
- Empty `fields` leading to ambiguity, in [[Definition – Leaves]] for example. How to solve?
- Comment after [[Definition – Leaves]] about leaf "named".
- Good comment on sentence before [[Lemma – Leaves from folding]]!
- [[Lemma – Fold and unfold are inverse]] footnote missing :)
	- And proof needs the other direction. It's very similar.
- [[Proposition – Fold and unfold commute under inverse]]: is this even a property of foldings, or is this not just functions with inverse?
	- Also, these foldings are applied with a place already.
	- This is a common thing: a folding is a partially applied folding (?)
	- How to disambiguate these the best?
- [[Definition – Requires]] a lot of comments :)
	- Paren should not be there. (I think?)
	- Remark on associativity
- [[Definition – Cut]]
	- This is an ad-hoc definition that appeared from usage.
	- Perhaps including $\rho$ would be a good idea.
		- Later comment: [[Lemma – Folding tree weaken cut]] depends on $\rho$ not being present at the time of writing.
- Perhaps split chapter in two: one on folding trees specifically, and one for analysis. (?)
- [[Lemma – Folding tree join and meet are least upper bound and greatest upper bound]]
	- What is meant by two vs. a any set?
- [[Lemma – Folding tree join and meet are closed]]
	- Edit says remove explanation of closed. While I agree, I think it might be useful for a reader who is not familiar with the term "closed" used like this. Should it be a remark below or something similar?
- [[Lemma – Folding tree lattice]]
	- Q: "Complete?" A: You tell me :)
		- I left it out, because I wasn't sure, and I didn't know if it mattered.
- [[Folding-level IR (FIR)]]
	- Example of read.(Yes, seems like a good idea)
- [[Definition – FIR well-defined access rules]]
	- These describe when it's okay to perform them; not what they produce.
	- But should they?
