---
tags: abstract
---

%%Software verification is the process of formally checking a system behaves according to a specification, and program verification applies this to show correctness of programs. Verifying a system can be difficult and require expert knowledge of provers and underlying techniques used by verifiers. We claim that program verification can be made more accessible by tooling.%%

%%Program verification applies formal methods and uses automated logical provers to show correctness of programs, but such verification can be difficult and require expert knowledge of the underlying techniques used by these systems. We believe that program verification can be made more accessible by tooling. We develop Mist, a language for program verification, using Viper as the verification infrastructure, to investigate this claim, and formalize an analysis for determining necessary unfolding of isorecursive structures, in a step to lessen the burden of using quantified permissions. We demonstrate the capabilities of Mist through exemplary programs.%%

%%Program verification applies formal methods and uses automated logical provers to show the correctness of programs. However, such verification can be difficult and require expert knowledge of the underlying techniques used by these systems. We believe that program verification can be made more accessible by investing in ergonomics and tooling. We develop Mist, a language for program verification, using Viper as the verification infrastructure, and formalize an analysis for determining the necessary unfolding of isorecursive structures to lessen the burden of using quantified permissions. We demonstrate the capabilities of Mist through exemplary programs.%%

Program verification applies formal methods and uses automated logical provers to show the correctness of programs. However, such verification can be difficult and require expert knowledge of the underlying techniques used by these systems. We believe program verification can be made more accessible by developing its ergonomics and tooling. To support this, we develop Mist, a language for program verification, using Viper as the verification infrastructure, and formalize an analysis determining the necessary unfoldings of isorecursive structures to lessen the burden of using quantified permissions. We demonstrate the capabilities of Mist through exemplary programs verified by the Mist compiler.
